README.md, before:

# Clover SDK for Javascript Integration

<!---
!!NOTE!!  The following is automatically updated to reflect the npm version.
See the package.json postversion script, which maps to scripts/postversion.sh
Do not change this or the versioning may not reflect the npm version correctly.
--->
Current version: 1.1.0-RC1

## Overview

This SDK provides an API to allow your web application using Javascript to interface with a Clover® Mini device (https://www.clover.com/pos-hardware/mini)

The API is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/clover/remote-pay-cloud) for download, and can be used in conjunction with the proper browser framework from a NodeJS `require` directive, [hosted on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/remote-pay-cloud)

1. The remotepay/ICloverConnector is the high-level API with methods like `Sale()`, `VoidTransaction()`, `ManualRefund()`, etc.
2. The remotepay/ICloverConnectorListener is the high-level listener API that defines callback methods like `onSaleResponse`, `onRefundPaymentResponse`, etc.
3. The API includes objects that map to standard Clover objects such as `Payment`, `CardTransaction`, `Order`, etc.  These objects will match those defined in  [clover-android-sdk](https://github.com/clover/clover-android-sdk)

The library requires the browser you use to support WebSockets. See [WebSocket Browser Support](http://caniuse.com/#feat=websockets).

### Examples
#### Application
A sale/refund UI example project [Clover Cloud Connector Example](https://github.com/clover/clover-cloud-connector-example) is available for download and deployment, or direct deployment to a Heroku server.

#### Example Framework
A example project composed of small examples [Clover Cloud Connector Unit Examples](https://github.com/clover/clover-cloud-connector-unit-examples) is available for download and deployment, or direct deployment to a Heroku server.

Please report back to us any questions/comments/concerns, by emailing semi-integrations@clover.com.

## Release Notes

### Version 1.1.0-RC1

A deprecated beta version of the Connector (Clover.js) is included in this version with `require` directive syntax, but will removed in the future.

### Version [BETA](https://github.com/clover/remote-pay-cloud-BETA/tree/BETA_Final) 

The beta version includes the earliest library as well as a server with examples of the functions. 

---

# Quickstart

Clover's cloud connector API.  Published as an NPM package.  Intended for use in a browser environment.

## At a Glance

### Make a sale.
```
require("prototype");
var $ = require('jQuery');

var clover = require("remote-pay-cloud");
var log = clover.Logger.create();

var connector = new clover.CloverConnectorFactory().createICloverConnector({
    "oauthToken": "1e7a9007-141a-293d-f41d-f603f0842139",
    "merchantId": "BBFF8NBCXEMDV",
    "clientId": "3RPTN642FHXTX",
    "deviceSerialId": "C031UQ52340015",
    "domain": "https://dev1.dev.clover.com/"
});

var ExampleCloverConnectorListener = Class.create( clover.remotepay.ICloverConnectorListener, {
    initialize: function (cloverConnector) {
        this.cloverConnector = cloverConnector;
    },
    onReady: function (merchantInfo) {
        var saleRequest = new clover.remotepay.SaleRequest();
        saleRequest.setExternalId(clover.CloverID.getNewId());
        saleRequest.setAmount(10000);
        this.cloverConnector.sale(saleRequest);
    },
    onVerifySignatureRequest: function (request) {
        log.info(request);
        this.cloverConnector.acceptSignature(request);
    },
    onSaleResponse: function (response) {
        log.info(response);
        connector.dispose();
        if(!response.getIsSale()) {
            console.error("Response is not an sale!");
            console.error(response);
        }
    }
});

var connectorListener = new ExampleCloverConnectorListener(connector);
connector.addCloverConnectorListener(connectorListener);
connector.initializeConnection();

// Close the connection cleanly on exit.  This should be done with all connectors.
$(window).on('beforeunload ', function () {
    try {
        connector.dispose();
    } catch (e) {
        console.log(e);
    }
});
```

### To make a payment using the High Level Cloud API
#### Import the libraries needed to create the clover object.
```
require("prototype");
var clover = require("remote-pay-cloud");
```
#### Create the Clover Connector object.
This will require gathering the configuration information to create the connector.  In this example, the configuration is hard coded.  The creation of the connector is done using the connector factory.
```
var connector = new clover.CloverConnectorFactory().createICloverConnector({
    "merchantId": "BBFF8NBCXEMDT",
    "clientId": "3RPTN642FHXTC",
    "deviceSerialId": "C031UQ52340045",
    "domain": "https://dev1.dev.clover.com/"
});
```

There are several ways the Clover Connector object can be configured.

Examples of configurations that can be used when creating the Clover Connector object:

1. With a clientID, domain, merchantId, deviceSerialId
```
{
  "clientId" : "3BZPZ6A6FQ8ZM",
  "domain" : "https://sandbox.dev.clover.com/",
  "merchantId" : "VKYQ0RVGMYHRS",
  "deviceSerialId" : "C021UQ52341078"
}
```
1. With a oauthToken, domain, merchantId, clientId, deviceSerialId
```
{
  "oauthToken" : "6e6313e8-fe33-8662-7ff2-3a6690e0ff14",
  "domain" : "https://sandbox.dev.clover.com/",
  "merchantId" : "VKYQ0RVGMYHRS",
  "clientId" : "3BZPZ6A6FQ8ZM",
  "deviceSerialId" : "C021UQ52341078"
}
```

#### Define a listener that will listen for events produced byt the Clover Connector.
The functions implemented will be called as the connector encounters the events.  These functions can be found in the clover.remotepay.ICloverConnectorListener. 
```
var ExampleCloverConnectorListener = Class.create( clover.remotepay.ICloverConnectorListener, {
    // This function overrides the basic prototype.js initialization function.  This example
    // expects that a coler connector implementation instance is passed to the created listener.
    initialize: function (cloverConnector) {
        this.cloverConnector = cloverConnector;
    },
    // The ICloverConnectorListener function that is called when the device is ready to be used.
    // This example starts up a sale for $100
    onReady: function (merchantInfo) {
        var saleRequest = new clover.remotepay.SaleRequest();
        saleRequest.setExternalId(clover.CloverID.getNewId());
        saleRequest.setAmount(10000);
        this.cloverConnector.sale(saleRequest);
    },
    // The ICloverConnectorListener function that is called when the device needs to have a signature
    // accepted, or rejected.
    // This example accepts the signature, sight unseen
    onVerifySignatureRequest: function (request) {
        log.info(request);
        this.cloverConnector.acceptSignature(request);
    },
    // The ICloverConnectorListener function that is called when a sale request is completed.
    // This example logs the response, and disposes of the connector.  If the response is not an expected 
    // type, it will log an error.
    onSaleResponse: function (response) {
        log.info(response);
        connector.dispose();
        if(!response.getIsSale()) {
            console.error("Response is not an sale!");
            console.error(response);
        }
    }
}
```

#### Add the listener instance to the connector, and initialize the connection to the device.
```
var connectorListener = new ExampleCloverConnectorListener(connector);
connector.addCloverConnectorListener(connectorListener);
connector.initializeConnection();
```

#### Clean up the connection on exit of the window.  This should be done with all connectors.
This example uses jQuery to add a hook for the window `beforeunload` event that ensures that the connector is displosed of.
```
$(window).on('beforeunload ', function () {
    try {
        connector.dispose();
    } catch (e) {
        console.log(e);
    }
});
```

## Generate Documentation
API documentation is generated when `npm install` is run. 
[Online Docs](http://clover.github.io/remote-pay-cloud/1.1.0-RC1/)

Commit message:

SEMI-423  Backwards compatibility for ACK on old remote pay

README.md, after:

# Clover SDK for Javascript Integration

<!---
!!NOTE!!  The following is automatically updated to reflect the npm version.
See the package.json postversion script, which maps to scripts/postversion.sh
Do not change this or the versioning may not reflect the npm version correctly.
--->
Current version: 1.1.0-RC1

## Overview

This SDK provides an API to allow your web application using Javascript to interface with a Clover® Mini device (https://www.clover.com/pos-hardware/mini)

The API is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/clover/remote-pay-cloud) for download, and can be used in conjunction with the proper browser framework from a NodeJS `require` directive, [hosted on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/remote-pay-cloud)

1. The remotepay/ICloverConnector is the high-level API with methods like `Sale()`, `VoidTransaction()`, `ManualRefund()`, etc.
2. The remotepay/ICloverConnectorListener is the high-level listener API that defines callback methods like `onSaleResponse`, `onRefundPaymentResponse`, etc.
3. The API includes objects that map to standard Clover objects such as `Payment`, `CardTransaction`, `Order`, etc.  These objects will match those defined in  [clover-android-sdk](https://github.com/clover/clover-android-sdk)

The library requires the browser you use to support WebSockets. See [WebSocket Browser Support](http://caniuse.com/#feat=websockets).

### Examples
#### Application
A sale/refund UI example project [Clover Cloud Connector Example](https://github.com/clover/clover-cloud-connector-example) is available for download and deployment, or direct deployment to a Heroku server.

#### Example Framework
A example project composed of small examples [Clover Cloud Connector Unit Examples](https://github.com/clover/clover-cloud-connector-unit-examples) is available for download and deployment, or direct deployment to a Heroku server.

Please report back to us any questions/comments/concerns, by emailing semi-integrations@clover.com.

## Release Notes

### Version 1.1.0-RC2

SEMI-423: Added backwards compatibility For older versions of android remote-pay ACK messages.

### Version 1.1.0-RC1

A deprecated beta version of the Connector (Clover.js) is included in this version with `require` directive syntax, but will removed in the future.

### Version [BETA](https://github.com/clover/remote-pay-cloud-BETA/tree/BETA_Final) 

The beta version includes the earliest library as well as a server with examples of the functions. 

---

# Quickstart

Clover's cloud connector API.  Published as an NPM package.  Intended for use in a browser environment.

## At a Glance

### Make a sale.
```
require("prototype");
var $ = require('jQuery');

var clover = require("remote-pay-cloud");
var log = clover.Logger.create();

var connector = new clover.CloverConnectorFactory().createICloverConnector({
    "oauthToken": "1e7a9007-141a-293d-f41d-f603f0842139",
    "merchantId": "BBFF8NBCXEMDV",
    "clientId": "3RPTN642FHXTX",
    "deviceSerialId": "C031UQ52340015",
    "domain": "https://dev1.dev.clover.com/"
});

var ExampleCloverConnectorListener = Class.create( clover.remotepay.ICloverConnectorListener, {
    initialize: function (cloverConnector) {
        this.cloverConnector = cloverConnector;
    },
    onReady: function (merchantInfo) {
        var saleRequest = new clover.remotepay.SaleRequest();
        saleRequest.setExternalId(clover.CloverID.getNewId());
        saleRequest.setAmount(10000);
        this.cloverConnector.sale(saleRequest);
    },
    onVerifySignatureRequest: function (request) {
        log.info(request);
        this.cloverConnector.acceptSignature(request);
    },
    onSaleResponse: function (response) {
        log.info(response);
        connector.dispose();
        if(!response.getIsSale()) {
            console.error("Response is not an sale!");
            console.error(response);
        }
    }
});

var connectorListener = new ExampleCloverConnectorListener(connector);
connector.addCloverConnectorListener(connectorListener);
connector.initializeConnection();

// Close the connection cleanly on exit.  This should be done with all connectors.
$(window).on('beforeunload ', function () {
    try {
        connector.dispose();
    } catch (e) {
        console.log(e);
    }
});
```

### To make a payment using the High Level Cloud API
#### Import the libraries needed to create the clover object.
```
require("prototype");
var clover = require("remote-pay-cloud");
```
#### Create the Clover Connector object.
This will require gathering the configuration information to create the connector.  In this example, the configuration is hard coded.  The creation of the connector is done using the connector factory.
```
var connector = new clover.CloverConnectorFactory().createICloverConnector({
    "merchantId": "BBFF8NBCXEMDT",
    "clientId": "3RPTN642FHXTC",
    "deviceSerialId": "C031UQ52340045",
    "domain": "https://dev1.dev.clover.com/"
});
```

There are several ways the Clover Connector object can be configured.

Examples of configurations that can be used when creating the Clover Connector object:

1. With a clientID, domain, merchantId, deviceSerialId
```
{
  "clientId" : "3BZPZ6A6FQ8ZM",
  "domain" : "https://sandbox.dev.clover.com/",
  "merchantId" : "VKYQ0RVGMYHRS",
  "deviceSerialId" : "C021UQ52341078"
}
```
1. With a oauthToken, domain, merchantId, clientId, deviceSerialId
```
{
  "oauthToken" : "6e6313e8-fe33-8662-7ff2-3a6690e0ff14",
  "domain" : "https://sandbox.dev.clover.com/",
  "merchantId" : "VKYQ0RVGMYHRS",
  "clientId" : "3BZPZ6A6FQ8ZM",
  "deviceSerialId" : "C021UQ52341078"
}
```

#### Define a listener that will listen for events produced byt the Clover Connector.
The functions implemented will be called as the connector encounters the events.  These functions can be found in the clover.remotepay.ICloverConnectorListener. 
```
var ExampleCloverConnectorListener = Class.create( clover.remotepay.ICloverConnectorListener, {
    // This function overrides the basic prototype.js initialization function.  This example
    // expects that a coler connector implementation instance is passed to the created listener.
    initialize: function (cloverConnector) {
        this.cloverConnector = cloverConnector;
    },
    // The ICloverConnectorListener function that is called when the device is ready to be used.
    // This example starts up a sale for $100
    onReady: function (merchantInfo) {
        var saleRequest = new clover.remotepay.SaleRequest();
        saleRequest.setExternalId(clover.CloverID.getNewId());
        saleRequest.setAmount(10000);
        this.cloverConnector.sale(saleRequest);
    },
    // The ICloverConnectorListener function that is called when the device needs to have a signature
    // accepted, or rejected.
    // This example accepts the signature, sight unseen
    onVerifySignatureRequest: function (request) {
        log.info(request);
        this.cloverConnector.acceptSignature(request);
    },
    // The ICloverConnectorListener function that is called when a sale request is completed.
    // This example logs the response, and disposes of the connector.  If the response is not an expected 
    // type, it will log an error.
    onSaleResponse: function (response) {
        log.info(response);
        connector.dispose();
        if(!response.getIsSale()) {
            console.error("Response is not an sale!");
            console.error(response);
        }
    }
}
```

#### Add the listener instance to the connector, and initialize the connection to the device.
```
var connectorListener = new ExampleCloverConnectorListener(connector);
connector.addCloverConnectorListener(connectorListener);
connector.initializeConnection();
```

#### Clean up the connection on exit of the window.  This should be done with all connectors.
This example uses jQuery to add a hook for the window `beforeunload` event that ensures that the connector is displosed of.
```
$(window).on('beforeunload ', function () {
    try {
        connector.dispose();
    } catch (e) {
        console.log(e);
    }
});
```

## Generate Documentation
API documentation is generated when `npm install` is run. 
[Online Docs](http://clover.github.io/remote-pay-cloud/1.1.0-RC1/)
